Lost Mine of Phandelver
Joshua Worthington
Source: https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/lmop/introduction

Introduction
	Lost Mine of Phandelver is an adventure for four to five characters of 1st level.
	During the course of the adventure, the characters will advance to 5th level. The 
	adventure is set a short distance from the city of Neverwinter in the Sword Coast 
	region of the Forgotten Realms setting. The Sword Coast is part of the North — a 
	vast realm of free settlements surrounded by wilderness and adventure. You don’t 
	need to be a Forgotten Realms expert to run the adventure; everything you need to 
	know about the setting is contained in this content.
	
1-1
	The adventure begins as the player characters are escorting a wagon full of provisions 
	and supplies from Neverwinter to Phandalin. The journey takes them south along the High 
	Road to the Triboar Trail, which heads east (as shown on the overland map). When they’re 
	a half-day’s march from Phandalin, they run into trouble with goblin raiders from the 
	Cragmaw tribe.

	Read the boxed text (1-2) when you’re ready to start. If you create a different adventure hook, 
	skip to the second paragraph and adjust the details as necessary, ignoring the information 
	about driving the wagon.
	
1-2
	In the city of Neverwinter, a dwarf named Gundren Rockseeker asked you to bring a wagonload 
	of provisions to the rough-and-tumble settlement of Phandalin, a couple of days’ travel 
	southeast of the city. Gundren was clearly excited and more than a little secretive about 
	his reasons for the trip, saying only that he and his brothers had found “something big,” 
	and that he’d pay you ten gold pieces each for escorting his supplies safely to Barthen’s 
	Provisions, a trading post in Phandalin. He then set out ahead of you on horse, along with 
	a warrior escort named Sildar Hallwinter, claiming he needed to arrive early to “take care 
	of business.”

	You’ve spent the last few days following the High Road south from Neverwinter, and you’ve 
	just recently veered east along the Triboar Trail. You’ve encountered no trouble so far, but 
	this territory can be dangerous. Bandits and outlaws have been known to lurk along the trail.
	
1-3
	Any character can drive a wagon, and no particular skill is necessary. Two oxen pull the wagon. 
	If no one is holding the reins, the oxen stop where they are.

	The wagon is packed full of an assortment of mining supplies and food. This includes a dozen
	sacks of flour, several casks of salted pork, two kegs of strong ale, shovels, picks, and 
	crowbars (about a dozen each), and five lanterns with a small barrel of oil (about fifty 
	flasks in volume). The total value of the cargo is 100 gp.
	
1-4
	You’ve been on the Triboar Trail for about half a day. As you come around a bend, you spot 
	two dead horses sprawled about fifty feet ahead of you, blocking the path. Each has several 
	black-feathered arrows sticking out of it. The woods press close to the trail here, with a 
	steep embankment and dense thickets on either side.
	
1-5
	If you are using the “Meet Me in Phandalin” adventure hook, then any character who approaches 
	to make a closer investigation can identify the horses as belonging to Gundren Rockseeker and 
	Sildar Hallwinter. They’ve been dead about a day, and it’s clear that arrows killed the horses. 
	When the characters inspect the scene closer, read the following: (read 1-6)
	
1-6
	The saddlebags have been looted. Nearby lies an empty leather map case.
		
2-1
	You’ve been on the Triboar Trail for about half a day. As you come around a bend, you spot 
	two dead horses sprawled about fifty feet ahead of you, blocking the path. Each has several 
	black-feathered arrows sticking out of it. The woods press close to the trail here, with a 
	steep embankment and dense thickets on either side.
		
2-2
	If you are using the “Meet Me in Phandalin” adventure hook, then any character who approaches 
	to make a closer investigation can identify the horses as belonging to Gundren Rockseeker and 
	Sildar Hallwinter. They’ve been dead about a day, and it’s clear that arrows killed the horses. 
	When the characters inspect the scene closer, read the following to the party:

	The saddlebags have been looted. Nearby lies an empty leather map case.
	
2-3
	4 Goblins are about to ambush the party, 2 on each side of the road.
	Determine if any in the party are surprised:
		- Roll 1 d20 for all the goblins and add their stealth modifier
		- Any in the party whos passive perception is lower than the goblins' steal roll is surprised
			- Surprised characters cannot act in the first round of combat
	
2-4
	Pick any 2 of the goblins to rush forward for melee attacks
	The other 2 stay at range with their bows
	If it looks like the Goblins are losing, one attempts to flee toward the goblin trail
	
2-5
	If the players are defeated, they are left unconscious and looted, not killed. The goblins
	loot the wagon and head back to Cragmaw hideout. The party can continue to Phandalin,
	buy new gear at Barthen's Provisions, and return to the ambush site to find the gobin's trail.
	
2-6
	The characters might capture one or more goblins by knocking them unconscious instead of 
	killing them. A character can use any melee weapon to knock a goblin unconscious, succeeding 
	if the attack deals enough damage to drop the goblin to 0 hit points. Once it regains 
	consciousness after a few minutes, a captured goblin can be convinced to share what it knows. 
	A goblin can also be persuaded to lead the party to the Cragmaw hideout while avoiding 
	traps along the way.
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	